Previously
on The Bastard Executioner...
(screaming)
BERBER:
There are many things
we do not know about our leader.
Even Petra knows
little of his life
before he came to the river.
Will you ever
tell me what you see?
ANGEL CHILD AND ANNORA:
Your savior needs you
to live the life
of a different man.
MAN:
Gawain Maddox!
- The traveling punisher.
- Ah.
This is half my wage.
If you do not find this
satisfactory.
move on.
Time is a most
aggressive foe. Milus.
I need to make my gains now.
We need to fortify
our resources.
Steeper taxes and tariffs.
LADY LOVE:
You will break them. Milus.
And we both know
there's nothing more dangerous
than a Welshman
who has nothing to lose.
Tell me. Baroness.
How is it that someone
of your privilege
may come to know
the plight of the common man?
It is time.
TORAN:
Brother Wilk.
- Ventris comes again.
- Already?
JACOB: They'll take what little
stock and harvest we have left.
We can't do this without you.
Yea.
Gather supplies. We'll need
to ride before midday.
PETRA:
You're not a rebel. Wilkin.
- JONAS: Took us in darkness.
- (laughter)
Deadly ghosts.
In familiar hoods.
There was another this time.
Saw a flash of his face.
PETRA:
Ventris is sly and brutal.
It's only time and chance
before you feel his blade.
- We've barely stock and food to live.
- You're the only stock
I can't live without!
Is there a mind for fairness
in your swift purpose?
Of course. my love.
Fair process for every man.
We can't do this alone anymore.
You saw the daffodil hides
in the trees.
The Byth Encil rebels
would welcome our skill.
VENTRIS: Where are your men?!
They went to Glen Darby Birch.
- With their hoods?
- Yea! With hoods!
(Eva screaming)
VENTRIS:
Kill them all.
Burn it to the ground.
What are you...?
- (fire crackling)
- _
(shouts)
- (groans)
- Careful. boy.
S-Sorry. Ma.
(groans)
It's shit. Hmm?
Like the lot of you.
- Come here.
- I'm-I'm sorry.
- (baby crying)
- Don't mother him.
He needs to feel the pain
of his mistake.
JESSAMY:
He feels it.
I won't tend it.
Please. enjoy the drink.
We have another bird.
I'll feed you in short.
- Don't put rule on me. whore!
- (groans)
No.
(crying)
Crawl. you cur!
JESSAMY:
Please. Maddy.
GAWAIN:
Show me the trench.
The village!
Hyah!
(shouts)
(horse neighs)
(Wilkin groans)
(shuddering breaths)
No.
(panting)
(crying)
(crying softly)
Dear child.
(panting)
Oh...
(sobs)
Sweet boy.
My Rhys.
This was Ventris.
His collector as proof!
Savage noble!
Damn your holy destiny.
(sobbing):
Devil Christ. Damn you.
(grunting)
(panting)
(grunts)
JACOB:
The sword.
Crest of Edward the First.
(grunts)
CALO:
Where does he ride?
To meet the devil.
As are we.
Our families...
Will be avenged.
- (horse neighs)
- Hup!
(grunts)
See to the dead.
This is my fight.
We've all earned this horror.
I've no plan but vengeance.
The only plan left.
Yea. then.
To Castle Ventris.
- (horse neighs)
- Ha!
(shouting)
This is mine.
(shuddering breaths)
My due.
My sorrow.
Forgive me.
(sizzling. quiet gasping)
(panting. sobbing)
♪ Born with a heart ♪
♪ That could ache
more than beat ♪
♪ The mind of a killer ♪
♪ The soul of the meek ♪
♪ Flock with no shepherd ♪
♪ Is a vulnerable game ♪
♪ I can live without a hearth ♪
♪ Without love ♪
♪ But I do need a name ♪
♪ Father. do you burn ♪
♪ If your hand is in fire? ♪
♪ Does your head
spin with rage ♪
♪ When fooled by the liars? ♪
♪ King of the kings ♪
♪ Do you feel any pain? ♪
Sync and corrections by n17t01
www.addic7ed.com
WEB-DL resync by kinglouisxx
_
The witch.
What brings you so far east.
woman?
The same thing
that brings all of you.
We flee the darkness.
Did you witness the massacre?
No.
But I will witness yours
unless you alter your purpose.
There's nothing to alter.
We face what's ahead.
But you do not need
to face it alone.
Your cynic... he has ties
to the way of victory.
You are all knots and coil.
(inhales)
Pain of yesterday's
fierce effort.
(sighs softly)
So you found your bandits.
No.
But we met with the
proof of their guilt.
And you've returned
with that proof?
(chuckles)
Difficult to carry
bone and slag.
(door opens)
CORBETT:
My lord.
A scout came through from
midshire this morning.
Spotted seven men
traveling east last night.
One with a sword
bearing Longshanks' mark.
Our bandits on a
mission. perhaps.
Taking their vengeance
to my gate?
Are they that mad with grief?
Or soldiers willing to die
in service of their sorrow.
I think it best
we meet them in journey.
away from anyone who may see
this fool play as valiant.
Stay.
Protect the walls.
Prepare a full legion
of foot soldiers.
I'll gut this warrior bandit.
Choke him cold with a snare
of his own entrails.
A fine plan. my lord.
Are you waiting
for a royal proclamation?
Go with him. Reeve.
Yes. indeed.
Chamberlain.
My lady.
(horses neighing)
Who are you. traveler?
Gawain Maddox. milord.
I come up from the South.
Punisher by trade.
You have tools in possession?
Yea'on.
Ride with us.
I may need your services.
My family.
Ride the main trail north.
It leads to Castle Ventris.
They can wait there.
Just follow on.
I'll be with you.
(horses sputtering)
Do you remember me.
Earl Constable?
I'm the knight
you sent to his death
at the hands
of the hoarding Scots.
Impossible.
You know this man. my lord?
If you are indeed that knight.
you're either a
deserter or a ghost.
If not dead then.
then dead now.
I live with the terror
of your betrayal every day.
But I'll spare you that pain.
Death will quiet your mind.
They're all rebels. milord.
Time to go back to hell.
Marcher Baron!
(whistles)
(horses neighing)
Deus vult!
(men shouting)
(yells)
Go. go. go!
(screams)
(neighs)
(grunts)
(screams)
Not ghost. nor deserter.
Nor hood.
(yells)
VENTRIS:
London will hunt down
the hooded bandits
and crush your toy rebellion.
I've no rebellion.
Just a need to see you die.
(yells)
♪
How is he?
Will he heal?
Only blood runs.
no other humors.
He will sleep.
BERBER:
Ventris was right.
The king's army
will come. hunt down
the hooded thieves.
Yea. No rock unturned until our shit
holes are split on the cradle.
Mm.
Your. uh...
your dark friend...
is he. um...
in our pope's grace?
A moor. converted
in his homeland.
A good Catholic like us all.
Yea. Bloody work
is the Lord's.
TORAN:
Indeed.
I need a name
to offer my thanks.
Gruffudd.
You're the one
they call "the wolf."
I'm called many hard things.
Most by my wife.
Thank you for answering
our plea. Gruffudd.
We serve each other. friend.
The baron's forged weapons
will be a welcome change
from our sticks
and cobbled blades.
Ventris has lost
nearly two legions.
His army is weakened.
We're not ready to storm walls.
Even with noble swords.
But word of this victory
will spread and it will inspire.
Our numbers will grow.
I have no doubt.
Godspeed for your knight's
return to sound body.
An unlikely ally in our fight.
Let him know there
may come a time
when I collect on this favor.
Toran. Moor!
You crazy witch!
To what end
does this devilry serve?
(grunting)
The baron has returned?
No. But I have
news of his need.
At Heaven's Eye.
we saw the rebel symbols.
Lord Ventris sent me back
to secure more troops.
Sent you back? Alone?
Not to spare arms he may need.
I welcomed the risk
of riding apart.
Gather what men we can spare.
With haste.
Shall I find the baroness?
No. You should find a bath.
You reek of shit.
And fear.
(sighs)
(groans)
You join the living.
Who did this?
The healer.
She offered no reason.
(groans)
Cut her binds.
Why did you cut and scar me?
To save you.
Your only chance
to live is to be supposed dead.
He gives you that gift.
Who are you. woman?
Truly.
What's your interest in me?
You have a fate...
that you must learn to hold.
One that will forever
mark your place in time.
I am here to help
tell that story.
My story is over.
No.
It is just begun.
The angel spoke the truth.
The angel?
The bright child
who came to you.
How...
I've never whispered
a word of that to anyone.
I hear the same voices.
It's time to lay down
this sword. Wilkin Brattle.
(angel child's voice):
Your savior needs you
to live the life
of a different man.
Unhitch one of the
horses. brother.
Then go join the
others at the caves.
I think I'll finish
the ride. friend.
A plan hatched by a witch...
what's to worry?
We deliver the dead. tell
the tale. and ride off.
Free men. no price on our head.
It's a sound devise.
Simple enough an executioner
could carry it forth.
(chuckles)
And what say of your purpose.
What name for you?
Sneermonger?
Well. my da. he wanted
to call me Marshal.
But my ma thought it
too destined to war.
Ma got the name.
da got the destiny.
Yea. indeed.
And what of your father?
You never tell of anything.
There's nothing to tell.
I don't have one.
(grunts)
(children's choir
singing Latin hymn)
(choir continues
(choir continues)
ISABEL:
Pardon. Baroness.
(choir stops singing)
Outsiders have come.
They bring sad news.
Bring him down.
My deepest condolences.
Lady Love.
Let's bring you and the baron
into the castle
so you can mourn in peace.
Have the baron taken
to the sacrament room.
Who are you?
Gawain Maddox. milady.
Punisher by trade.
from the southern land.
This is Marshal.
a journey soldier... he aids me
in the capture of the accused.
Tell me of his death.
We met the baron
at Heaven's Eye.
Called upon us
to ride with him.
At the grass fields.
they crossed a band
of hooded thieves.
Took a fierce run.
Noblemen cut down
the seven of them.
WILKIN:
Before the baron could rally.
rebels attacked.
50 or more.
Caught the ranks tired
and out of formation.
Your husband fought gallantly.
but the numbers were too steep.
I'm sorry.
Old men and boys.
WILKIN: Your mail-clad soldiers
were too heavy to carry.
We can send troops there
to collect the others.
LADY LOVE: And what brings
an executioner to Ventrishire?
Work. milady.
I travel. go where
my services are needed.
RANDULF:
He lies!
This man is
not the executioner.
He's one of the thieves.
As is that one.
You're the liar. sir.
I've traveled with Gawain
for many years.
Dispatch a messenger
to Glamorgan for proof.
There is no other face
looks like this one.
WILKIN:
We just came
to deliver the dead.
Out of respect.
We'll leave if it upsets
your court.
You'll stay and be quartered.
The remedy for this dispute
is already here.
The wife and children
of Maddox. sent here
to wait for his return.
Come forward.
Tell us the truth.
Is this man indeed your husband?
(fussing)
(trembling breaths)
(whispers):
I'm sorry.
My love.
Good Maddy. thank God
you've come back safe.
This is lunacy!
She conspires with him!
Such tragedy...
lands on my name this day.
My dearest friend.
a life snuffed...
not in a fitting battle...
but by the ambush
of painted dogs.
And my kin.
Caught between two tales.
I speak only truth.
dear brother.
I have nothing to gain
from such a lie.
These men are
the bandits we pursued.
Did battle in the
fields beyond the eye.
I myself
and other honored knights
heard you tell
how you were dispatched
before any such fray.
Yea.
- I did. but...
WILKIN: - You may have
nothing to gain. but
you've much to hide.
We saw this man at the fray.
He tucked tail and slithered
away. letting his brothers
fall to the curs.
That's why he lies.
'Cause we know the truth.
That's...
- I tell you. these are the...
CORBETT: - Enough!
So. then. Reeve...
you are either a false accuser
or you deserted your commander
in battle!
Both come with
a punishment of death!
(whispering):
Please...
Milus...
brother...
do not do this.
Take him!
Brother. we are blood.
Do not betray me.
Damn you!
Damn your half-hatred!
Damn y...
(grunts)
(gasping)
(Randulf yells)
I'm gonna speak to the King!
Curse you!
I'll curse you from hell!
(Randulf sobbing)
My shame is only
outdone by my sadness.
My deepest sympathies. Baroness.
I am in your service.
whatever the need.
Thank you. Milus.
I will do haste
with manor law and trial.
It is fitting...
that the man falsely accused
be the one who is skilled
to take his head.
Welcome to Castle Ventris.
executioner.
Baroness.
The priest. he said I could
come for evening prayer.
Please. sit.
I welcome the chapel's use.
Few spend time here but me.
Do you mind?
Please.
I wouldn't think
one of your trade would
complicate things with prayer.
Perhaps it takes you in deeper.
May I ask how this happened?
It was given to me by a healer.
A holy woman.
A reminder
of my need for faith.
Your soldier gave
the impression
it distinguished
you for some time.
Yet. the burn looks fresh.
I renew the vow
when my faith wavers.
You're bleeding.
Yea.
An angry branch
on last night's ride.
May I?
WILKIN:
In here. milady?
LADY LOVE:
No better one
to heal you than Him.
The physicker
should look at this.
(baby crying)
I'll find the physicker.
No. Stay.
Finish your devotion.
I'll have him find you.
Baroness?
I sent an emissary to London
and one to Erik's brother
in Coventry.
I'm sure our king will offer
comfort and guidance
of how we proceed to govern.
We proceed by
burying my husband.
Yes.
Of course.
Another thought. milady.
This executioner...
his arrival.
although it brought sadness...
it could turn to good fortune.
How so?
If we secure him
and his soldier.
we gain skilled men
to hunt offenders
and carry out the correction.
Sends a sound message.
Ventrishire will not
suffer lawlessness.
That's well advised.
dear Chamberlain.
Good. I'll draft the letters
that bind them.
I have news. Maddox.
The trial was swift.
the guilt clear.
We will stage the execution
in the village square
midday tomorrow.
He's your blood.
There must be some...
due leniency. a brother's mercy?
You rid me of a mistake
influenced by familial guilt.
No kin. no worries.
But of course.
you wouldn't understand that.
Being a family man.
And you're the final word
of justice here?
As well as chancellor
and advisor.
You'll find that nothing passes
through this shire
without me touching it.
I'm afraid that's a lesson
I'll have to miss.
I move on after tomorrow.
Ah. but that's my news.
You and your soldier
will stay on.
Your position is now standing.
We're journeyman.
Travelers.
Now. you have a home.
I'm sure that will be
a comfort to your
wife and wee things.
(breathing loudly)
Why are you doing this?
Our buried truths bind us.
And your skills will serve me.
I need a man
with the heart of a dragon.
(scratching)
(soft gasp)
ANNORA:
Ludwig?
(shallow breathing)
We need to ready our faith.
(shakily):
Ja. meine Liebe.
(breathing shakily)
FATHER: Dominus noster
Jesus Christus te absolvat
Ego auctoritate
ipsius te absolvo
ab omni vinculo excommunicationis
et interdicti...
- (boys singing chant in Latin)
- ...in quantum possum
- et tu indiges.
- (groaning)
Ego te absolvo
a peccatis tuis
in nomine Patris. et Filii.
et Spiritus Sancti. Amen.
(Randulf groaning)
(singing chant continues)
Blades have been grinded. sir.
(groans softly)
(singing chant continues)
(whispering. laughing)
(inhales deeply)
(exhales deeply)
(quietly):
Help me.
(crowd murmuring)
Always.
You'll need this. headsman.
Little Rand was full of shit.
(laughter)
A stuffed clown.
You best take another.
Yeah. His ass will spout
like a fountain.
(laughter)
Who did you spring from?
(yelling)
(thudding)
Sync and corrections by n17t01
www.addic7ed.com
WEB-DL resync by kinglouisxx